Code reuse

Code reuse is hard, object orientated programming doesn't actually help much with this.

Reusable code is code that is easy to understand. 
When I have something I'd like to write there is often a library available to do it. But after a while looking at the badly documented and difficult(for me) to understand API for what (I consider) is a fairly simple problem I'll often go off and attempt to write it myself.
Often this library code will have some large dependancy that I'm not familiar with or wouldn't otherwise have installed.(I avoid ruby/java/mono like the plague).
Reading and understanding other people's code is difficult and every additional dependancy increases the cognative load.


"It’s harder to read code than to write it." - Joel Spolsky





Lisp suffers from this.
Lisp has very little ability to allow code reuse.

Every watched a sequal to a movie that didn't really make sense.
Or a movie version of a book that completely missed the whole point of the book?

Abstract mental models are a hard thing to communicate to large numbers of people with any kind of expectation that they will all understand it in the same way.


Code is made harder to understand by it's fair lack of physical restriction.
It's pretty easy to get a mental model of a house. You're largely restricted by the physical world, gravity, material strength, heating/cooling requirements. The basic requirements of a human beings, doors need to be a certain size, bench top a certain height etc.

Code at the user interface level tends to have similar requirements placed on it, but as you get further down the stack things get more abstract.



Code reuse is hard. It's so hard that it tends to only work for code that doesn't do anything specific in the real world.
You can reuse an xml parser to parse any kind of xml. 

As Programmers our job is to translate the real world in to a simpler form that we can actually express in code.
When we give things names we tend to describe them in a more broad sense then they really are. Eg. A user object in your application only expresses the attributes of a user that your application requires, 
it doesn't really make a whole lot of sense outside of your application.
It can't be used in someone else's application unless you can both agree on what a user is and they will always have trouble any time you make changes to the user class that doesn't match with how they invisioned what a user is.

This is even the case with functions. A function such as getTelephoneNumber() makes all kinds of assumptions about what the user of this function thinks a 'telephone number' is. Fixing a bug in this function or making some kind of 
change may not mesh with their expectations. This usually leads to subtle bugs that take days to track down. Ah, the joys of modern programming.

concrete code is reusable. Abstract code isn't. Business logic is almost always abstract, operating systems are mostly concrete.





